hello everybody you join me here again
in Axminster today I want to have a look
at our chucks and some of the jaws are
available for them now you may not know
this but all of our chucks and our jaws
are made here in Britain right here in
Axminster literally 50 meters away from
where I'm standing we make them out of
stainless steel for a couple of reasons
firstly for the corrosion obviously but
also to help with the accuracy side of
things because it means we don't have to
allow for a coating they also come
supplied with the safety jaw the nice
rounded edges just to protect your
fingers also being made here in axe
minutes so we have control of our
innovation we can push innovation we can
come up with our own ideas and listen to
other people's so what I'd like to do
now is just start by looking at the 18
millimeter version and work our way up
through the sizes of chucks and start
looking at some of the jaws available
for them okay so here we have the 18
millimeter Chuck and as we've already
said it's attached with its safety jaws
and I've just picked out three of the
jaws designed for the 80 mil Chuck so
here we have our first one this is the C
jaw
many of you will know the C jaw from
previous versions this literally just
made a little bit smaller just to cope
with the 18 millimeter body of the Chuck
has a nice little grip a sessional tooth
on the inside edge but on the outside
we've got a nice little dovetail for
expanding out on to dovetail recesses
bases of things small bowls that sort of
thing we then move on to the small DS
now these jaws again have two surfaces
we have a nice small dovetail surface on
the outside and you have a nice small
pointed section on the inside now these
will actually close down to nothing so
if you imagine holding small drill bits
very small pieces for jewelry or dolls
house furniture that sort of thing
inside of that you're perfect for that
and then we come to a very
well-established jewel this is an old
Donald jewel and with the old Donald jaw
very very deep in the jaw itself so if
you want to throw your workpiece away
from the chuck a little bit further we
have the two surfaces which are dovetail
here on the top but also we have a nice
parallel
on this side here if you want to hold
long-stemmed goblets or synonyms of any
sort that's going to be the jewel for
you so nice little bundle there of jaws
and and the 80 millimeter up for the
smaller machine so now we're moving on
to the 100 mils so the FK 100 and just
like the 80 millimeter Chuck there we
have our safety draw already attached we
have again another three sets here so
just a small selection of what is
available I've got the a jewel which is
a dovetail jaw and again like the
previous previous dive told jaws you've
got the dovetail section on the external
and the internal so for large platters
you've got a fantastic diameter there of
dovetail and again small feet on bowls
again you've got the internal diameter
you've also got a third dovetail this is
right at the very center of this jaw
here so you can just see it right in
this section here
they've got three sizes of dovetail
there we then move on to the the G jaw
now this is half dovetail and you got
half gripper so if you imagining
yourself doing a very large hollow form
you need maximum grip but you don't mind
about the teeth marks then this is your
year of surface here you'll be gripping
on these very fine teeth again if you
want to do a large platter or something
like that with a large recess you've got
the nice size of dovetail also very deep
dovetail also on this one you've got a
parallel shank on the inside so again
you could use that for holding things
like spigots on on doorknobs that sort
of stuff for some some large knobs on
this one we now go to the H jaw now this
is a true double or in this case
actually a triple gripper where we've
got our three gripper sections of the
very inside one then we've got an
internal grip there and again another
external grip on on here
so a good selection of three jewels
they're available for the SK 100 now the
SK 100 jaws will also fit on the
evolution and the evolution jaws will
also fit down on on the 100 millimeter
jaws
most of the drawers available will fit
various different chucks that we do okay
so here we have our latest Chuck this is
the SK one one four or evolution again
supplied with the safety jaws this one
because of its size we've elongated the
safety jaws just to help if there is any
likelihood of sideways movement it's
going to be taken away with the
evolution shop again the three drawers
I've chosen this time we've got the C
jaws here so like previous C jewels
we've got the dovetail on the outside
edge we've got our gripper session or a
tooth on the inside edge there so great
for again for holding the bottoms of the
other bowls or if you might want to make
a VARs or goblet that sort of thing for
the inside here we then got a piranha
jaws
now these piranha jewels very very big
gripping power here you can see the size
of the serrations both internal and
external really sizable jaws these very
very strong strong jaws and then we'll
go on to a wood plate jaws now these do
need a little bit of explaining if
you've never seen a set of wood plate
jewels before they're very much like
button jaws wherein you make the wooden
George sit on top of here which you can
then grip the outside of bowls once
finished just to take the feet away or
any other application you think a wooden
jaw will help with either internal or
external the jaw of course can be made
to any size and generally with a piece
of plywood is is the best option there
so there we are Axminster Chuck's just a
small selection of the jaws that we do
have available for it coming with a
stainless steel body highly accurate
made here in Axminster in the heart of
Devon with the Sun safety jaws but also
coming with a selection of thread sizes
to suit most of the common lays today